- [Instructor] In the previous video,
we saw the hierarchies for generic classes.
But then what happens to the type arguments?
Remember that whenever we invoke a generic class,
the type argument is always passed along with it.
And type arguments at the end of the day are types,
so they'll also have parent-child classes.
Well, it is not as straightforward
as it is with generic classes.
When it comes to type arguments,
generics is quite strict.
And it requires an exact an match.
Let's see how.
We know that the class double is a subclass,
of the class number in the Java APIs.
Now, just because this relationship is true,
that does not mean that an array list of double,
becomes a subtype of list of number.
This is not possible.
That is because, the type argument that was used
in the invocation of list is number,
and the one which was used in a real is double.
And these arguments do not match.
This means, that you cannot pass
an array list of double argument,
to a method that accepts a list of number parameter.
Let's see a piece of code for this.
Let's say you have a class called Mathutility,
and inside that there is a static average method.
This method accepts a parameter,
of the type list of number.
Now, when you invoke this method,
like this, Mathutility.average,
you cannot pass an argument,
which is new array list of double.
Why?
Because, the type argument
that is used in that method argument,
is not the same as the type argument,
in the method parameter.
Consequently, you will not be able to do casting as well.
Let's understand how.
Let's say you have this piece of code,
there is a variable numbers,
which is of the type list of number.
And there is another variable doubles on the next line,
which is of the type array list of double.
And it is instantiated to an array list of double object.
Given these two lines,
you will not be able to assign the doubles variable,
to the numbers variable.
The reason is the same again.
The type argument that was used with the array's class,
is not the same as the type argument used with the list.
Now, these restrictions that we saw on type arguments,
could be a little more relaxed,
when we use wildcards.
And we're going to look at wildcards,
in the subsequent videos in this module.
So given all these rules,
what are then the valid cases for generic hierarchies?
There's one rule that we have to absolutely remember.
That is, your subtype relationships
are going to be preserved,
only when your type arguments have an exact match.
Let's see a couple of examples.
We know that list and array list,
are in a parent-child relationship.
So if you create a list of double,
and then if you create an array list of double,
since the type argument is an exact match here,
that's why a real of double is a correct subtype,
of list of double.
Let's see one more example,
which is from our box application.
In the previous demo,
we created a subclass called cardboard box,
which extended the box class.
And when we tested that example,
we created a box of fruit, and a cardboard box of fruit.
So again, the type of argument
is the same here in both cases, which is fruit.
And that's why this relationship is also valid.
Let us do a very quick demo,
for the type argument hierarchies.
So the first step is to create a class apple,
which extends fruit.
So now we are trying to create a parent-child relationship,
for a type arguments that we pass
when we invoke our generic types.
So let's head back to the IDE,
and create a class apple.
This will be a class, not an annotation.
Okay.
And let this extend the fruit class.
And the moment you do this,
it'll tell you that there is no
default constructor available in the fruit class,
So you will have to create a constructor,
matching the super class constructor.
So there we go.
The next step will be to create a box of apple instance.
So let's go to our test class now.
Test generic hierarchies.
And I'm just going to put a comment here,
type argument Hierarchies.
So we know, that this demo specifically for type arguments.
So let's go ahead and create a box of apple instance.
Like that.
Say apple box,
and just instantiate this to the box object.
Next step is to assign a box of apple reference,
to a box of fruit reference.
And on line number seven,
we already have a fruit box variable,
which is of the type, box of fruit.
So we are going to say fruit box,
equal to apple box.
We want to assign the box of apple variable,
to the box of variable.
And if you see, you get a compilation problem.
It says that the required type is box of fruit,
but you're providing box of apple.
And this is because, there is no exact match,
on the type argument that you passed,
when you created both of those boxes.
So this is how it works for type arguments.
And we've already seen the valid cases for hierarchies.
Do not forget that the type argument,
must be an exact match.
So let's comment out this quote,
because it'll lead to a compilation error,
and the project will not build.